All right, so one more example now
for ArrayList dor toArray.
We're gonna paste in this code after the other code,
the main method.
All righty, so there's the code and go back up to the top
of what I've pasted in.
So it's now ready for where the array length
is less than the list size and the array
elements initialise to null,
or otherwise for the method toArray
populates a new instantiated array of the same type
as the parameter passed, and the size of the list itself.
Not the parameter passed.
So this code is very similar to scenario one,
except what we're now using is an integer array
initialised to three elements.
You can see that on line 143 and our list has, in fact,
has five elements.
So we're sorting the result there to our local variable
type var variable,
and we're making no assumptions about what type of object
the two array methods return in there.
You can see the rest of the code there.
So we're doing that again,
basically for the raw ArrayList,
as well as the generics one.
All right, let's run this code.
So all things being equal,
this is exactly like scenario one
that we explored in the previous video
with a significant difference though
The array that is returned from the method
is not the array we passed,
but it is the type we gave the array we passed
as a parameter.
One more example.
Scenario five.
Let's paste that code in.
Okay, so there's the code.
We just go back up and see the code from the top.
So the scenario five here,
this is just a twist to the different last example
we pasted.
So it's the array length list, the list size,
and no reference to an array passed.
The method toArray populates a new instantiated array
of the same type as the parameter itself,
and the size of the list itself,
not the parameter passed.
So we're passing here an referenced number zero array
as the parameter, an empty array,
at a different type than our ArrayList of integer object
generic list.
All right, so we run that now.
So that's results for scenario five.
And again, it's a number array, the array passed,
and not a reference variable.
So putting it all together here,
at the top of array returned,
is determined by the parameter passed,
not by the type associated to the ArrayList itself.
Type of the ArrayLsit does allow you to eliminate casting
in most cases,
the exception is when you have no parameter,
or your parameter array is a different type.
All right, so we're now going to review
the other methods on ArrayLists, but very quickly.
So we need a new class for this.
So let's create one.
ArrayListsExamples will be what we'll call it.
This code includes a couple of samples each
of equals, isEmpty, contains, constaintsAll,
indexOf, lastIndexOf, sublist, iterator, and listIterator.
They can see we're initialising our ArrayList
at the top there,
then we start with some of these calls.
You can see that though isEmpty on line 20
returns true if there's no elements in the array.
Equals there returns true if the element values are equal.
You can see we're comparing firstArray to second,
and firstArray to the thirdArray.
Using dot contains returns true if element values are equal.
And you can see what we're doing there.
Using firstArray dot contains DEF,
and doing a contains ZZZ.
ContainsAll must find all elements in the list,
the order doesn't matter.
We've got some examples of that on lines 37, 40, and 43.
Dot indexOf returns minus one if the element is not found,
or the index of the element found.
You can see what got a couple examples of that.
LastIndexOf returns again minus one
if elements are not found,
or the index of element if it's found.
Two examples there of using dot lastIndexOf.
And an example there of subList
that returns a reduced list using the starting index
and ending index.
You can see the call there on line 62.
An example of using an iterator there.
And lastly you got an example
of using the ListIterator code from line 70 and onwards.
So if we run all this code.
We've got the various output applicable,
as you can see.
All right, so I've been through quite a lot,
so you may wanna go back and re-review those videos
remembering that the source code is available for you
to download and study.
This is the case for all videos in this course.
All right, so we'll end the video here.
And in the next one,
it's time to review some additional information
about ArrayLists and collections.
See you in the next video.